README.md, before:

## Development of Emotion and Reasoning in the General Speeches of the United Nations: A text-based machine learning approach

### Author: Sarah Franzen

#### Project Overview
This GitHub repository contains the code and data for my master’s thesis. The project analyzes UN General Debate speeches (1946–2023) and scores them for emotion and rationality using a text-based machine learning approach. This project replicates the paper “Emotion and Reasoning in Political Language” by Gennaro and Ash (2021) using a different dataset. I utilize their dictionaries, stopwords list, and list of procedural words, which are available at https://zenodo.org/records/5748084

Before running the scripts, you need to download the following files and place them in the appropriate folders:

- procedural_words.pkl
- stopwords.pkl
- dictionary_affect.pkl
- dictionary_cognition.pkl

The script for data creation takes on average 1h to run. The script for the model training takes approximately 2h.
  
#### Technical Specifications
Operating System: Windows 11
Language: Python
Tools & Libraries: Jupyter Notebook, nltk, matplotlib, seaborn, joblib, pandas, spacy, gensim, pycountry, tqdm, tabulate, numpy, scipy, tabulate

#### Data
The speeches analyzed in this project come from the United Nations General Debate Corpus (1946–2024):
Jankin, Slava; Baturo, Alexander; Dasandi, Niheer. United Nations General Debate Corpus 1946-2024, V13. Harvard Dataverse, 2017.
https://doi.org/10.7910/DVN/0TJX8Y


#### Installation / Setup

Folder Structure: Automatic Setup once you set your working directory
```
.
├── Code/
│   ├── 0_data_creation/                       # Script for creating new variables, data cleaning, data preprocessing and word frequencies
│   ├── 1_model_training_centroids_scoring/    # Script for Word2Vec model training, calculation of centroids and scoring the speeches in emotionality
│   └── 2_figures /                            # Script for descriptive figures and result plots
│   └── 3_tables /                             # Script for Summary Statistics
│
└── data/
    ├── data_original/     # Raw, unmodified input data
    ├── temp/              # Temporary data files (incl. cleaned data)
    ├── freq/              # (Weighted) Word Counts
    ├── dictionaries/      # Dictionary files 
    ├── preprocessed/      # Preprocessed data
    ├── results/           # Final scores and output results
    ├── models/            # Trained Word2Vec models
fig/                  # Figures
tables/               # Tables
```

Commit message:

Ensure Reproducability with worker=1; MAIN FILE

README.md, after:

## Development of Emotion and Reasoning in the General Speeches of the United Nations: A text-based machine learning approach

### Author: Sarah Franzen

#### Project Overview
This GitHub repository contains the code and data for my master’s thesis. The project analyzes UN General Debate speeches (1946–2023) and scores them for emotion and rationality using a text-based machine learning approach. This project replicates the paper “Emotion and Reasoning in Political Language” by Gennaro and Ash (2021) using a different dataset: The United Nations General Debate Corpus (1946-2024). I utilize their dictionaries, stopwords list, and list of procedural words, which are available at :



The script for data creation takes on average 1-2h to run. The script for the model training takes approximately 3-4h.
  
#### Technical Specifications
Operating System: Windows 11
Language: Python
Tools & Libraries: Jupyter Notebook, nltk, matplotlib, seaborn, joblib, pandas, spacy, gensim, pycountry, tqdm, tabulate, numpy, scipy, tabulate

#### Data
The speeches analyzed in this project come from the United Nations General Debate Corpus (1946–2024):
Jankin, Slava; Baturo, Alexander; Dasandi, Niheer. United Nations General Debate Corpus 1946-2024, V13. Harvard Dataverse, 2017.
https://doi.org/10.7910/DVN/0TJX8Y

The stopwords and dictionaries for affection and cognition are from the Replication Package from Gennaro & Ash:
Gennaro, G., & Ash, E. (2021). Replication package for: Emotion and Reason in Political Language. Zenodo. https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.5748084


#### Installation / Setup

Folder Structure: Automatic Setup with the MAIN File.
```
.
├── notebooks/
│   ├── 0_data_creation/                       # Script for creating new variables, data cleaning, data preprocessing and word frequencies
│   ├── 1_model_training_centroids_scoring/    # Script for Word2Vec model training, calculation of centroids and scoring the speeches in emotionality
│   └── 2_figures /                            # Script for descriptive figures and result plots
│   └── 3_tables /                             # Script for summary statistics and other tables
│
├── notebooks/Additional Analysis/             # Additional Analysis with different calculation of weighted frequencies and individual stopwords
│   ├── Different Calculation Weighted Frequencies/
│   │   ├── 0_data_creation_changed_weighted_freq
│   │   ├── 1_model_training_centroids_scoring_changed_weighted_freq
│   │   └── 2_figures_changed_weighted_freq
│   ├── Individual Stopwords/
│   │   ├── 0_data_creation_ind_stopwords
│   │   ├── 1_model_training_centroids_scoring_ind_stopwords
│   │   └── 2_figures_ind_stopwords
└── data/
    ├── data_original/     # Raw, unmodified input data
    ├── temp/              # Temporary data files (incl. cleaned data)
    ├── freq/              # (Weighted) Word Counts
    ├── dictionaries/      # Dictionary files
    ├── stopwords/         # Stopwords from Gennaro & Ash
    ├── preprocessed/      # Preprocessed data
    ├── sentences   /      # Sentence Splits for Word Embeddings
    ├── results/           # Final scores and output results
    ├── models/            # Trained Word2Vec models
fig/                  # Figures
tables/               # Tables
```
